README.md, before:

# Portfolio Building Demo


- [Portfolio Building Demo](#portfolio-building-demo)
  - [What is a GitHub page?](#what-is-a-github-page)
    - [Change a repository to GitHub page](#change-a-repository-to-github-page)
  - [Directory structures](#directory-structures)
  - [Add your own materials](#add-your-own-materials)
    - [Branching  and mergeing](#branching--and-mergeing)
  - [Additional note](#additional-note)
  - [TODO](#todo)

This is an example repository that demos how to build a portfolio using GitHub Pages. The original material is from this [repo](https://github.com/aboualnaser/aboualnaser.github.io) and then modified for tutorial purpose.

## What is a GitHub page?

A [GitHub page](https://pages.github.com/) is a static site building service. It enables you to turn a repository into a website. For more details. Please refer to the official GitHub page.

The typical usage of GitHub page includes

  1. Project page like [Electronjs](https://github.com/electron/electronjs.org).
  2. Personal blog, (a lot of examples).
  3. Personal portfolio, like this one.

Usually there are two ways to maintain a static website. 

   1. Modify the html, js and css files directly.
   2. Use a static site generator like [Jekyll](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/working-with-github-pages/setting-up-a-github-pages-site-with-jekyll).

If the website is simple enough like this one, you `can` modify the html file directly, as I am doing, but it is almost always encouraged to learn a static website generator. For more information, please refer to the [official tutorial](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/working-with-github-pages/creating-a-github-pages-site-with-jekyll) using Jekyll with GitHub page.

### Change a repository to GitHub page

To turn a normal repository into a GitHub Page repository, go to the `Settings` tab of the repository and enable the GitHub page option. Do make sure that the repository has a `index.md` or `index.html` to show something on the main page of the site. For details, please refer to this [tutorial](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/working-with-github-pages/creating-a-github-pages-site).

If the repository's name is the same as your username, then it can be accessed at [https://username.github.io](https://username.github.io). Otherwise he site can be accessed at [https://username.github.io/reponame](https://username.github.io/reponame). For example, this page can be accessed at [https://rongpenl.github.io/ZacharyCV/](https://rongpenl.github.io/ZacharyCV/). The former is usually used to create personal portfolio so if your GitHub username looks unprofessional or unrelated to yourself, **change it now** since it is globally unique and someone else may also want it.

## Directory structures

```shell
├── css
│   ├── base.css
│   ├── font-awesome
│   ├── fonts.css
│   ├── main.css
│   ├── micons
│   └── vendor.css
├── fonts
│   ├── lora
│   └── poppins
├── images
│   ├── bg.jpg
│   ├── intro-bg.jpg
│   ├── logo.jpeg
│   └── zach.jpeg
├── index.html
├── index_src.html
├── js
│   ├── jquery-2.1.3.min.js
│   ├── main.js
│   ├── modernizr.js
│   ├── pace.min.js
│   └── plugins.js
├── README.md
├── requirements.txt
├── src
│   ├── index.html
│   ├── populate.py
│   ├── profile.json
│   ├── README.md
│   └── template.html
└── styles.html
```

Beginners only need to edit the `index.html` and images.

## Add your own materials

For simplicity, there are only the `index.html` file and `images` directory that you need to modify. Follow the comments in the [index.html](./index.html) file to modify it and monitor the content and look of it in your browser to proceed.

### Branching  and mergeing

GitHub page will by default use the `main` or `master` branch for static webpage rendering. It is suggested that you follow the `branching and merging` workflow to update contents.

## Additional note

Thanks to [Zach](https://www.linkedin.com/in/zachary-p-villarreal/) for allowing me to use his portfolio as example to build this website.

## TODO

[x] Add jinja template generation script to avoid direct `index.html` modification.

Commit message:

fix my syntax error, added quickstart for students who don't have time to learn

README.md, after:

# Portfolio Building Demo


- [Portfolio Building Demo](#portfolio-building-demo)
  - [What is a GitHub page?](#what-is-a-github-page)
    - [Change a repository to GitHub page](#change-a-repository-to-github-page)
  - [Directory structures](#directory-structures)
  - [Add your own materials](#add-your-own-materials)
    - [Branching  and mergeing](#branching--and-mergeing)
  - [Additional note](#additional-note)
  - [TODO](#todo)

This is an example repository that demos how to build a portfolio using GitHub Pages. The original material is from this [repo](https://github.com/aboualnaser/aboualnaser.github.io) and then modified for tutorial purpose. 

No time to learn?

1. Fork/copy this repository and change the repo name to `username.github.io`. For me it is `rongpenl.github.io`. (5 mins)
2. Go to `src` directory, change the `portfolio.json` file, run the script according to its readme. (20 mins)
3. Replace the logos, etc in the image folder. (2 mins)
4. Change the setting of your repo to GitHub pages (1 mins)
5. Now you have your portfolio webpage running at `username.github.io`.

## What is a GitHub page?

[GitHub page](https://pages.github.com/) is a static site building service. It enables you to turn a repository into a simple static website. For more details. Please refer to the official GitHub page.

The typical usage of GitHub page includes

  1. Project page like [Electronjs](https://github.com/electron/electronjs.org).
  2. Personal blog, (a lot of examples).
  3. Personal portfolio, like this one.

Usually there are two ways to maintain a static website.

   1. Modify the html, js and css files directly.
   2. Use a static site generator like [Jekyll](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/working-with-github-pages/setting-up-a-github-pages-site-with-jekyll).

If the website is simple enough like this one, you `can` modify the html file directly, as I am doing with `jinja`, but it is almost always encouraged to learn a static website generator. For more information, please refer to the [official tutorial](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/working-with-github-pages/creating-a-github-pages-site-with-jekyll) using Jekyll with GitHub page.

### Change a repository to GitHub page

To turn a normal repository into a GitHub Page repository, go to the `Settings` tab of the repository and enable the GitHub page option. Do make sure that the repository has a `index.md` or `index.html` to show something on the main page of the site. For details, please refer to this [tutorial](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/working-with-github-pages/creating-a-github-pages-site).

If the repository's name is the same as your username, then it can be accessed at [https://username.github.io](https://username.github.io). Otherwise he site can be accessed at [https://username.github.io/reponame](https://username.github.io/reponame). For example, this page can be accessed at [https://rongpenl.github.io/ZacharyCV/](https://rongpenl.github.io/ZacharyCV/). The former is usually used to create personal portfolio so if your GitHub username looks unprofessional or unrelated to yourself, **change it now** since it is globally unique and someone else may also want it.

## Directory structures

```shell
├── css
│   ├── base.css
│   ├── font-awesome
│   ├── fonts.css
│   ├── main.css
│   ├── micons
│   └── vendor.css
├── fonts
│   ├── lora
│   └── poppins
├── images
│   ├── bg.jpg
│   ├── intro-bg.jpg
│   ├── logo.jpeg
│   └── zach.jpeg
├── index.html
├── index_src.html
├── js
│   ├── jquery-2.1.3.min.js
│   ├── main.js
│   ├── modernizr.js
│   ├── pace.min.js
│   └── plugins.js
├── README.md
├── requirements.txt
├── src
│   ├── index.html
│   ├── populate.py
│   ├── profile.json
│   ├── README.md
│   └── template.html
└── styles.html
```

Beginners only need to edit the `index.html` and images.

## Add your own materials

For simplicity, there are only the `index.html` file and `images` directory that you need to modify. Follow the comments in the [index.html](./index.html) file to modify it and monitor the content and look of it in your browser to proceed.

### Branching  and mergeing

GitHub page will by default use the `main` or `master` branch for static webpage rendering. It is suggested that you follow the `branching and merging` workflow to update contents.

## Additional note

Thanks to [Zach](https://www.linkedin.com/in/zachary-p-villarreal/) for allowing me to use his portfolio as example to build this website.

## TODO

[x] Add jinja template generation script to avoid direct `index.html` modification.
[ ] Fix some glitches on mobile and wide screens.
